1 Executive Summary
This data set (two-way) is a hypothetical sample of 27 participants who have got three types
of treatments (mental, physical and medicinal) towards stress ruction. The participants
were categorised into three groups as young, mid and old based on their age. Findings from
the histogram, boxplot, q-q plot, and shapiro test, we can see that the data set is normally
distributed having no extreme value or outliers. I have my statistical hypothesis to support
the analysis of the data set, the null hypothesis iss H0 : mental = physical = medical and
Ha : at least one of them is dierent. The Anova test reveals the outcome through the
P value (less than 0.05) which rejects the null hypothesis and indicate that there are
dierences in eects levels. It also indicates that there is no relation between the factors
ages and treatment. The interaction plot conclude that the eectiveness of the treatments
was more on young people rather than mid and old. On the other hand, mental treatment
was more eective than physical and medical. At the same time the Pairwise tests reveal
that there is no signicant pairwise dierences between the treatment groups and on the
other hand the comparisons between age groups are signicant. I have gone through the
data set and found replicated values which are not valid for Friedman test. That is why the
replicated data have been analysed through their mean value. Finally, from the P values of
the Friedman test, I can see that these are almost close to eect level 0.05. But according
to the statistical methods, I am accepting the P values (0.04979) as less than 0.05. So,
these values indicate that there are no dierence in age eect with treatment as same as
for methods. On the other hand, the MS.test supports the statement from Friedman test
outcomes. Through the statistical analysis, it has been concluded that the eectiveness of
the treatments are more on young people rather than mid and old. On the other hand,
mental treatment is more eective than physical and medical.
